Update the Apache and Lets Encrypt documentation (#4259)
owncloud/docs: modules/admin_manual/pages/installation/letsencrypt/using_letsencrypt.adoc

= Using Let’s Encrypt SSL Certificates
:toc: right
:toclevels: 1
:letsencrypt-url: https://letsencrypt.org
:a-record-url: https://support.dnsimple.com/articles/a-record/
:raymii-ssl-url: https://raymii.org/s/tutorials/Strong_SSL_Security_On_Apache2.html
:certbot-url: https://certbot.eff.org
:certbot-docs-url: https://eff-certbot.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
:ssl-labs-url: https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/
:crontab-guru-url: https://crontab.guru
:snapcraft-url: https://snapcraft.io/docs/getting-started

== Introduction

This page covers how to configure your web server to use {letsencrypt-url}[Let’s Encrypt] as the certificate authority for your ownCloud server. Note that Let’s Encrypt is _not officially supported_, and this page is _community-maintained_.

* For ease of handling, SSL-specific directives have been moved into a separately included file. This can help for first-time certificate issuance as well as for reusing configurations.
* Read the {certbot-docs-url}[Certbot user guide] for details of the commands.

> * Let’s Encrypt CA issues short-lived certificates valid for 90 days. Make sure you renew the certificates at least once in this period, because expired certificates need reissuing. A certificate is due for renewal earliest 30 days before expiring. Certbot can be forced to renew via options at any time as long the certificate is valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Let’s Encrypt CA issues short-lived certificates valid for 90 days. Make sure you renew the certificates at least once in this period, because expired certificates need reissuing. A certificate is due for renewal at the earliest 30 days before expiring. Certbot can be forced to renew via options at any time as long the certificate is valid.
```

TIP: Raymii.org provides raymii-ssl-url[an excellent introduction to strong SSL security measures with Apache], if you would like to know more.

== Requirements & Dependencies

> You require a domain name with a valid {a-record-url}[A-Record] pointing back to your servers IP address. In case your server is behind a firewall, take the necessary measures to ensure that your server is accessible, worldwide, from the internet, by adding the required firewall and port forward rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You require a domain name with a valid {a-record-url}[A-Record] pointing back to your server's IP address. If your server is behind a firewall, take the necessary measures to ensure that your server is accessible, worldwide, from the internet, by adding the required firewall and port forward rules.
```

== Install Let’s Encrypt’s Certbot Client

> NOTE: certbot has updated the prerequisites and the way installing the certbot script. You can find how to install it on {certbot-url}/instructions[certbot instructions]. Follow one of the possible ways and continue when ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: certbot has updated the prerequisites and the way to install the certbot script. You can find how to install it on {certbot-url}/instructions[certbot instructions]. Follow one of the possible ways and continue when ready.
```

This script:

* Renews all your issued certificates.

> * In case you have enabled the post hook for your webserver in `cli.ini`, it will reload the web server configuration automatically if a certificate has been renewed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In case you have enabled the post hook for your web server in `cli.ini`, it will reload the web server configuration automatically if a certificate has been renewed.
```

> * In case you have enabled the post hook for your webserver in `cli.ini`, it will reload the web server configuration automatically if a certificate has been renewed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you have enabled the post hook for your webserver in `cli.ini`, it will reload the web server configuration automatically if a certificate has been renewed.
```

This script:

* Renews all your issued certificates but does not upgrade Certbot.

> * In case you have enabled the post hook for your webserver in `cli.ini`, it will reload the web server configuration automatically if a certificate has been renewed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In case you have enabled the post hook for your web server in `cli.ini`, it will reload the web server configuration automatically if a certificate has been renewed.
```

> * In case you have enabled the post hook for your webserver in `cli.ini`, it will reload the web server configuration automatically if a certificate has been renewed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you have enabled the post hook for your webserver in `cli.ini`, it will reload the web server configuration automatically if a certificate has been renewed.
```

=== <your-domain-name>.sh

> As an example, this script creates a certificate for following domain / sub-domains. You can add or remove sub-domains as necessary. Use your domain / sub-domain names. The first (sub)domain name used in the script is taken for naming the directories created by Certbot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example script creates a certificate for a domain or sub-domains, which can be added or removed as necessary. Replace (sub-domain.)example.com with your domain or sub-domain names. The first (sub)domain name in the script is used for naming the directories created by Certbot.
```

> As an example, this script creates a certificate for following domain / sub-domains. You can add or remove sub-domains as necessary. Use your domain / sub-domain names. The first (sub)domain name used in the script is taken for naming the directories created by Certbot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, this script creates a certificate for the following domain / sub-domains. You can add or remove sub-domains as necessary. Use your domain / sub-domain names. The first (sub)domain name used in the script is taken for naming the directories created by Certbot.
```

[NOTE]
====

> You can create different certificates for different sub-domains, such as `example.com`, `www.example.com`, and `subdomain.example.com`, by creating different scripts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create different certificates for different sub-domains, such as `example.com`, `www.example.com`, and `subdomain.example.com` by creating different scripts.
```

    Donating to EFF:                    https://eff.org/donate-le
----

> You can see that the SSL certificate’s been successfully created, and that it will expire on 2018-06-18.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can see that the SSL certificate has been successfully created and that it will expire on 2018-06-18.
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe use a date in the future from now although that will be outdated again in a couple of months?

> You can see that the SSL certificate’s been successfully created, and that it will expire on 2018-06-18.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see that the SSL certificate has been successfully created, and that it will expire on 2018-06-18.
```

Probably the contraction was OK - but it feels strange to me. IMO it reads more easily by writing the whole word "has".

== Test the Setup

After you have setup and configured the web server and installed the SSL certificate using Certbot, you should now test the security of your new configuration. To do so, you can use the free service of {ssl-labs-url}[SSL Labs]. See an example screenshot of a test run below.

image:installation/ssllabs.png[ssllabs]

== Renewing SSL Certificates

> As Let’s Encrypts certificates expire every 90 days, you should ensure you renew them before that time. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As Let’s Encrypt certificates expire every 90 days, ensure you renew them before that time. +
```

30 03 * * 6 /etc/letsencrypt/renew-cron.sh
----

After you save and exit the file, the new job will have been added to the Cron job scheduler.

> NOTE: If you want to use own values, you can check them eg. at {crontab-guru-url}[crontab.guru] or modify the script for other options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: If you want to use different values, you can check them e.g. at {crontab-guru-url}[crontab.guru] and modify the script with your preferred options.
```

> NOTE: If you want to use own values, you can check them eg. at {crontab-guru-url}[crontab.guru] or modify the script for other options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If you want to use your own values, you can check them eg. at {crontab-guru-url}[crontab.guru] or modify the script for other options.
```

== Add Extra Domains to the Certificate

If you want to add an extra domain, like `subdomain.example.com`, to your certificate, add the domain in the domain shell script above, re-run it and reload the web server config. This can be useful when migrating from

> a sub-directory to sub-domain access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a sub-directory for your ownCloud instance to sub-domain access.
```

> NOTE: This also implies that you need to comment the `include` directive (please refer to the relevant xref:web-server-setup[web server setup]) and follow the steps afterwards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: This means you need to comment the `include` directive (see the relevant xref:web-server-setup[web server setup]) and follow the steps afterwards.
```

sudo /etc/letsencrypt/delete.sh
----

> It will start off, as below, by displaying a list of the currently available SSL certificate domain names, and then prompt you to supply the certificate that you want to delete.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It will start off by displaying a list of the currently available SSL certificate domain names, as in the example below, and then prompt you to supply the certificate you want to delete.
```
